Alright everyone and welcome to a mini project series in this mini project series we are
basically going to create a news app where you will going to understand all the things
that we have learned till now into this module like how you can call your third party APIs,
create your own APIs and use that inside your X-Wap.
So without wasting any time let's move ahead and start initializing the project.
So this is the chapter number 1 for our project.
So, let me simply go to my VS code and simply hit this command, "Bunix create expo app
at the rate latest".
So, this is going to create a latest expo app for me, then dot slash, alright and then
this is basically going to install all the dependency for me.
So, let me wait for it.
Alright guys, so now you can see that we have successfully installed our expo app.
Perfect.
Then let me simply hit "Bonex Expo Start".
A bit 081 is already in use, so just give me a minute.
Let me quickly close my another server and then let me hit this once again.
So, yes, now this is working, let me simply press A, so this is going to start inside
my Android and let me wait for it just to open and yes, now you can see that this is
the default version of our application.
Now let me simply run it, so burn, run, reset project.
So, this is going to reset it and simply say no and clear it and then let me simply hit
1x expose start once again and after hitting this I am simply going to say R so this is
going to reload it.
All right, perfect.
Now what is the main goal of our this chapter?
So chapter number one is all about foundation and setup.
So first thing that we have did successfully is to we have initialize our project.
Next thing that we wanted to create a news app.
So, for creating a news app, we need a news API.
So for that, I wanted you to visit a simple, simply search here, a news API.
So you will found this website.
The name of this website is newsapi.org.
and then simply login and press on get API key. So after pressing here you will
found your API key. Don't try to use mine because I'm definitely going to
invalidate this. So please bring your own API keys and implement this. So I hope
so you guys can understand that. Cool.
So, now you will see this is my API key perfect, simply copy this API key.
So, let me simply copy this, close this and then let us go inside our folder structure
and then open a ENV and then simply say news API key.
Alright, and this is basically equal to this.
Alright, now let me close this, let me close everything and out of the folder structure
basically, simply create a config file and inside this config file, I wanted you to create
an API.ts file.
Perfect.
And, inside this api.ts file, I wanted you to do two things here.
First thing is simply write export const and ews news underscore api underscore key is
equals to process dot env news api key.
Perfect, make sure to confirm this.
And then next thing is going to be simple.
which is export const news underscore api underscore base underscore url and then simply
bring your base url.
So this is going to be a stdps and then this is going to be as news api dot org slash v2
yes these are the official api base url that we need to use for now.
Now let me close this close this as well.
What next?
Next, I wanted you to simply at the very top of it, create a types folder and inside this
types folder, simply say this as news.ts and then paste the type I am pasting.
You will find all the source code onto my GitHub itself.
All right.
So, now you will see that we have export interface news article source, source can have ID and
the name then same we have author, title, description, URL, URL to image, published at
and the content.
And in same way we also have API news response which is status total result for a pagination
thing and then we have articles and articles is the type of news article, cool.
Now, let's move ahead and then simply create.
Yes, now let me close this close everything simply create one services folder inside this
services folder create a new file name as news API.
.ts and this news API.ts is going to import bunch of things.
So the first thing is going to be news underscore base API URL and then another thing is going
to be news underscore API key.
Perfect.
And then I am also going to import here news API response types and then create a we can
say two functions or let me just first of all add bunch of interfaces like the first
interface is going to be cons export interface.
And I can say this as "Witch news params" and from where I am implementing all of them.
So if you simply go to news API, you will see all the related APIs thing that you need.
Perfect.
Like we have everything in same way.
We also have this like.
V2 everything, then you can see that we have this endpoint, we also have top headlines
endpoint, we also have on the basis of sources you can pass it, then we have everything common
domains like a lot of things.
So this is how you can fetch all of this data and only thing that you need to do is to simply
render them onto the UI, a very simple thing.
But I am definitely going to add a bunch of new thing here as well.
So, this interface is basically going to have bunch of things like we are going to have
page and the page size then we have category country very important and then query all
right perfect.
And then let me just simply add a method and I don't think so that we need it so we can
simply move and then simply say.
export const fetch top headlines.
So this is basically going to fetch all the top headlines.
So from where we can fetch the top headlines.
Yes, this one, like you just simply need to.
call this endpoint. Perfect. So, let me just simply come into here and say async. So, this
is going to accept params. Params is going to be the type of fetch news params, which
is initially empty. And then I can simply say this.
So, first of all, what I am going to do like this params, let me initialize initial values
for this params like page number is one, page size is 20 and then category we can go with
general and then country let's keep us and then query can be empty for now.
All right.
So, this is how this is basically going to look.
So page is equals to one page size is 20 category is general country is US and then query is
empty for now.
And then I'm basically going to create a query params.
What is the query params?
You will see that we are passing queries something like this.
So we need to create a query params object.
So I can simply say const query params is equals to new url search params.
Yes.
And then this is going to have first thing as API key, which is basically equal to news
API key.
Then second thing we are going to have is the page.
So page is equals to page dot two string and then we are going to have a page size.
This is equals to page size and again let me convert this to string and then we can have
basically all the categories that we have like this one and this one.
Perfect, so I am basically going to do here a simple logic, I am going to spread this,
so inside this spread, we are going to have the category and simple basic check and category
should not equal to all.
Then, I wanted you to add the category object, perfect.
So category object and in same way I can do for query.
So Q is basically equal to query.
So I have this is how I have created it and Q undefined is not assignable to this.
I think this is happening because of news API key.
So I can simply add if we do not have any news API key then I can simply return yes and
I can simply return maybe instead of return I can throw a new error.
And this error is going to be API key not found easy.
Now you will see this is top-crime.
Perfect.
And then I can simply create a URL.
So this is equals to URL.
Backticks.
We have a simple news underscore API base URL.
This is equal to we can say top headlines.
And then query is equals to the query params that we have.
So this is equals to query params dot to string.
And then this URL is basically going to be used inside the fetch and we can get our data.
So I can simply coming to here add a try and catch cons response is equals to await fetch
easy and in same way you can add bunch of we can say status handling thing but now we
are going to have a data, data is going to type of news API response and this can be await
response dot json.
And then I can simply return my data.
So I can simply say return data.
All right, very simple.
And by any chance, if we have any error, then console that error and throw the error.
Perfect.
So this is the first function that we have, which is named basically fetch top headlines.
And now let's move ahead and we'll see that how you can use this fetch top headlines.
So, for using it, I wanted you to simply go inside your app, yes first of all let me save
it, let me go inside my app, inside my index, inside this index I wanted you to modify this
a bit.
So, for modification, first thing, remove everything.
And then we need a safe area view from React Native safe area context.
And this safe area view is going to return me a component name as newsfeed, which is
don't exist for now.
So, I can simply close everything, create here one folder name as components and this
components is going to have something known as news feed.
So, I can simply say here news feed dot TSX, RNFES and I can say this as news feed.
Let me come into here and let me import it.
Now let me close this.
Let me go inside my news feed and what we can do now?
I can basically get my news.
So, first of all, I need to maintain bunch of yes, I need to maintain a lot of categories,
so for that, a lot of state variables.
So, the first state variable that we need is articles and set articles is equals to
used it which is going to be the type of news article, easy and we can have inside the array.
and initialize them as an MT array.
In same way we have loading, we can have refreshing, loading more, pages has more for pagination,
so lot of things.
So for now let me bring them whatever we need.
So, I have loading, I have refreshing, load more just for pagination purpose.
Same with page has more belong to basically that pagination thing.
Then we have error and then category like I am going to render the chips of category
same kind of in Pokemon app that we did same thing going to be here.
And then we have this country, perfect.
And then I am going to create here a method name as load news is equals to use callback
and this use callback is going to create here one sync callback.
So this is going to be a sync callback with empty dependency for now.
This async is going to accept first thing as page number which is type of number is equals to 1.
Second thing is reset which is equals to boolean and then this is basically equal to false.
Now, let me come into here and then what I can do I can simply use my fetch top headlines
method and we are good to go.
So I can basically maintain here a slight response is equals to await fetch top headlines
and then we can basically pass all the data that we have.
So for page I can pass page number.
And same for page size, let me have the 20 for category is basic if category is, where
is that categories equal to equal to all then need not to pass anything as a category.
So I can simply password undefined.
Otherwise, whatever category you are passing, we are going to pass that.
And then the country name and for yes, in future we are definitely going to handle the
searching feature then we will implement that as well.
And I can say what I can simply say.
So, if reset is true, so we are basically resetting them, I can simply say, consetarticle
is equals to response dot articles, yes.
Otherwise, if this is false, like we are not resetting it, we are fetching one after another.
So, I can simply say, let articles setarticle is equals to all the previous data and append
continue data, simple.
So, previous data and then whatever our new data, so I can simply say response dot articles
and if we have more like let's say that we have more then we are going to pass that as
well so that we can load more data.
So out of this else I can simply pass this.
set has more, so if response.article length is greater than 0 and page.number into 20
is less than response total result.
This means we have basically like we are setting up true and false kind of that.
So if it is true then has more if it is false then we don't have more.
So we need not to fetch anything and then simply say set page is equals to whatever
And yep, and in same way by any chance if we have any error, so you can definitely show
that error.
All right.
And then out of this we can do like inside this.
Like from here we are starting it alright from here till here I can cut this out I can
simply add try and catch inside try let me add all my logic like you guys can see this
is my try block into catch what I can do like if we have any error then I can simply going
to say set error is equals to error whatever is that perfect.
I can see is
Like me set this error dot I wanted to set my error as error error dot message we have
that I don't know it's fine so what I can do
So, let me just make it type safe, I mean it is easy but still I can simply say error
message is equals to whatever the error, if this error is the instance of error, so I
can simply going to return the error dot message look at that, this is how you can do so, otherwise
you can simply return fail to load news, easy.
And here you will simply pass error message.
Yes, this is bit more complex, complex I can say, but this is how you will grow, this
is how you will learn.
And then inside the finally, I can do set loading, set refreshing, set load more to
false.
Perfect.
And then I can simply add the dependency, first dependency is category, second is country,
third we do not have for now, so yes for now we only have two dependency.
And then out of this I can simply call my use effect, this use effect is basically going
to call my load news like one, pages one and then true.
And inside this, I can pass my category and the country.
Perfect.
Now let's move ahead and then what I can do, I can in same way I can add handle refresh
method like the moment you scroll down, you wanted to refresh data.
So this is how this is going to work like set refresh true set pages as one has more
true load news once again.
And what I'm going to do, I'm in same way going to create one more method, which is
handle load more.
So they are basically going to load more data.
The moment you move a one page ahead.
And then I can have one more method as.
like we don't need it for now handle category change.
So this is how you will change it set page has more in same way we can have a handle
country change.
So let me add that as well.
This is how whatever the country name is coming we are going to change it.
Perfect.
Nice.
In future we are going to have two, three more features but right now let me simply
create render footer.
But this is equal to if we do not have any like I can say if we do not have any loading
more then we are simply going to return null, but if we have in load more mode then I can
simply going to return a view that is showing us activity indicator basically a loader we
can say.
Cool, let me import my activity indicator and let me paste all of my designs that I
have for this.
You will get all of that inside my source code.
So now you will see that I have a container list content, footer loader, empty container,
empty text, retry button, lot of things.
I mean everything is there.
Cool.
Perfect.
Now, let's move ahead and start implementing the UI for it.
So for implementing the UI, first thing we have did render a footer in the same way I
can render my empty as well.
Empty state is basically like whenever you don't found any news.
So for that you can show that.
So I can simply say const.
render empty is equals to I can come into here and I can simply say if we are in loading
mode yes then simply coming to here and return null.
Otherwise, simply say return, return a view that is basically going to do what?
Let me show you, this is your view, this view is going to have a style, style of styles.
empty container and then we are going to have a text which is going to say us this like
we don't have this error for now so you can ignore it otherwise they are going to show
us this what is that no article found pull down and then get it cool and you can even
add a retry button here so what if I add that retry.
And I can show the error message as well like we can show the error and then out of this
text but I can do I can simply say if we have any error then I wanted you to render a simple
pressable cool attachable opacity which is basically going to prompt you to retry nothing
rocket science.
So, this is your empty render like we are rendering a touchable opacity then basic style
and on press we are loading more data easy I hope so cool and then in same way you can
render a lot more other thing as well.
But for now, like I don't like in upcoming chapters, we are going to implement other
things as well.
But for now, I think I can just simply show you a flat list that would be good and then
we can end this chapter.
So style is equals to this.
And then I can simply say this is styles.container.
And for now, in future, we are going to create a render here.
me add a basic to do.
This to-do is going to show us the header like that header have a search bar that header
has a country change bar will show you that everything.
But for now I think we can have.
A flat list, yes and this flat list is going to have a data as articles and then key extractor
would be equal to we can say URL.
So let me copy my key extractor and paste it.
So you will see we have item and index.
We are creating a key something like this whatever the URL add index into that and
yep otherwise you can simply return index but never treat index as a key you will understand
that but for now we are good to go.
And then I can simply say render item is equals to something like item and this item is going
to render a news feed.
Yes, this news feed not news feed sorry news card component which is going to accept articles
and then this article is going to accept this.
Cool, what is happening?
I think I need to close this.
All right, a basic syntax issue, let me fix it quickly.
All right, so yep.
Now we need to render this and the moment you do this.
And we are good to go.
Cool.
So let's move ahead and start creating this then and only this going to work otherwise
and let me add a self closing tag as well.
So let's create this simple component and then in upcoming chapter we are going to create
bunch of other components as well.
So, I can simply say this as newscard.tsx and this newscard is very pretty straightforward
we can say.
So, first of all, let me import all the thing that we need.
We need a react, bunch of components, this type and then image.
Perfect from ExpoImage.
And then let me create here interface interface have articles and on press and then I can
simply say export const and this will be going to be news card and this is going to accept
articles and then on press this is going to be the type of news card prop.
Like something this is right or I think this one export news card yes I am doing it right
then where I am looking just give me a minute like this one and I think here I need to pass
my news card props not news articles of this one.
Yep, property article, yep, this is not articles, this is article.
Now I think this will work.
And now we are also going to have equal to yep, now we are good to go.
And then this is basically going to have a handle press method.
And that handle press will do something.
But for now, let me just simply initialize that.
Perfect.
And then let me add here one simple utility.
This is format date.
You need not to understand this for now.
Cool.
This is basically going to format a date for you.
And then I wanted to return a basic UI.
So let me just simply copy and paste that UI because I don't want it to type line by line.
You should also copy and paste this if you wanted to.
Cool.
And then let me paste my styles as well.
And let me try to explain you what is happening.
So you will see that we have a touchable opacity which have a style and then on press handle
press.
So the moment you press on any news card, I wanted myself to redirect to that specific
news.
Then, if we have any image then I wanted to render here image, same bunch of design like
we are showing number of article name, source name, when it is published and then title,
description and author.
Easy and if I save it and import it.
Perfect.
And then I don't know how this is going to work.
But let me see finger crossed and if it's not work no problem will fix that in next
shift.
All right, they are not showing us anything.
Why?
Is render empty and render footer?
Yes, this is fine.
If I just go to my key extractor, we have render item.
In same way, we can have on and reach method here.
Not here, I mean here.
So on and reach is going to call handle load more.
Easy, and then in same way we can give on and threshold.
This is also fine.
Then I can list my footer component and empty component as well.
Then I can give container style, maybe because of this they are not showing us anything.
And then I can simply say show vertical scroll indicator as false and like this.
Alright, I think they are still not showing me anything.
If I reload it once again, what if I close my server?
We started.
Let me close everything.
Let me run it once again.
Cool.
And if I press on my news feed.
Let's see.
So, they are still not showing us anything.
So, is my data is coming?
Let's check that cool.
So this is your load news.
So let me go to my load news method.
This load news have a response and then we have articles.
Alright, let me try to see is I have any response so I can simply say const response perfect
and if I reload it.
Alright, so is it I am not using it correctly maybe if I go to my index we have this then
why it is not working.
If I go to my index we have this and I am not be able to show anything.
Cool, let me debug it and then see you in upcoming chapter.
So for this chapter, we are good to go.
We'll see the output in next chapter.
So for now, yeah, this is pretty much it and see you next time.